43 - Opportunistic actions are those in which the behavior takes advantage of circumstances.

Human Thought: Mostly Subconscious

45 - Most of the brain's operations are subconscious

47 - Factual Information <==> Declarative Memory
Recalling activities <==> Procedural Memory

47 - Cognition and Emotion cannot be separated.

48 - Subconscious thought matches patterns, finding the best possible match of one's past experience to the current one.
Subconscious thought is "fast thinking", detecting patterns
Subconscious thought is biased towards regularity and structure

48 - Conscious thought is slow and labored

49 - A positive emotional state is ideal for creative thought, but not suited for getting things done.
A negative emotional state provides focus: too much creates tunnel vision.

Human Cognition and Emotion

50 - There are three levels of processing: Reflective, Behavioral, and Visceral

The Visceral Level - The Lizard Brain

50 - The visceral system allows us to respond quickly and subconsciously, without conscious awareness or control.
Visceral learning takes place primarily by sensitization or desensitization through mechanisms like adaptation or classical conditioning.
Visceral responses are fast and automatic, reflex.

51 - For designers,  the visceral response is about immediate perception (style of appearance)

The Behavioral level

51 - The behavioral level is the home of learned skills, triggered by situations that match the appropriate patterns.

52 - For designers, the most critical aspect of the behavioral level is that every action is associated with an expectation.
Behavioral states are learned. Feedback provides reassurance, even when it indicates a negative result.

The Reflective Level

53 - Reflective level is about conscious cognition.
This is where deep understanding develops, where reasoning and conscious decision-making take replaced
Reflection often takes place after an event has happened.
The highest levels of emotion come from at the reflective level, where blame and responsibility are assigned.

Design Must Take Place at All Levels: Visceral, Behavioral, and Reflective

54 - All three levels of processing work together. All play essential roles in determining a person's like or dislike for a product or service.
55 - High-level reflective cognition can trigger lower-level emotion. Lower-level emotion can trigger higher-level reflective cognition.

The Seven States of Action and the Three Levels of Processing
