How to Improve your game as support zil

Hey this is Support Carry Zilean and today I'd like to share 5 ways that you can improve your Support Zilean Gameplay.

1) Land more Single Bombs in Lane. Don't worry about Double Bombs every time.

Landing a Single Time Bomb deals about 80-100 damage for a Rank 1 Time Bomb with Spellthief.

The concept here is to leverage your mana pool against their health pool and potions. You are looking to wear down the enemy so they have to play safely, when normally they would look to bully your lane out.

Throwing Double Bombs takes a ton of mana and should only be used in cases where you can secure the kill, or used as a means to escape.

If you can keep the enemy AD carry's health pool low enough, you force them to play safer, which gives you a laning advantage.

Also note, if you are in auto attack range of an enemy, you can almost always land a single Time Bomb as long as they don't have a mobility ability.


2) Use Time Warp on enemies to Land Double Bombs

If you are having trouble consistently landing Double Bombs, you will want to try adding Time Warp at the start of your combo.

If you are in range to land a Slow, you should have a very high probability of landing a Double Bomb, unless they have a mobility ability.

There is about a quarter of a second of time between the first and second Time Bomb landing, and if they are slowed, they cannot walk out of the distance in time.

Keep in mind this does cost a large amount of mana and should be used sparingly until you have a mana item.


3) You want to have more than 1 point in Time Warp by level 9.

Many believe that Zilean's kit revolves around Time Bomb, when actually Time Warp is the more powerful spell.

The difference between a 40% slow and a 70% slow is noticeable, and often you will force out a flash when the first slow lands. Trading a Flash for a 15second cooldown spell is extremely worth it.

My recommendation for Support Zilean is that no matter what item build or playstyle you are planning on, you will want to start by having 3 points into Time Bomb at level 5, then switch to putting points into Time Warp at levels 7 and 8, then decide if you want to max Bomb or Slow at that point.




4) Hold your ultimate as long as possible

If you are just learning Zilean, one of the worst feelings is when you could have used your ultimate, but you didn't. It happens to the best of us.

Those are learning experiences for you. The next time you'll have a better idea of when you can use the ultimate. It takes plenty of practice and intuition to nail consistent split-second ultimate saves.

The reason you want to hold your ultimate as long as possible is that there leaves no passive counterplay, which means enemies stop damage until the ultimate runs out, which is what good players do when they see the Zilean ultimate on a target.

At earlier levels, the cooldown on Chronoshift is very long, so using the spell at the right time is critical for turning early game all-ins.

There are times when you want to throw it out earlier, mostly during offensive tower dives where you want the diver to fully commit instead of trying to escape with low health.



5) Become familiar with the different playstyles of Support Zilean

Many people just picking up Zilean decide to build Ability Power because that's how he is played in the mid lane, but there is a strong Utility component that is even better in certain situations.

Conversely, if you only play a Utility-centric approach on Zilean, you should practice the damage approach every so often.

The reason is that each of those builds have strengths that complement eachother: The Damage build focuses on having a stronger laning phase, while the Utility focuses on a better mid-late game.

When you have more experience, you'll have a better understanding on which items are more useful at certain points in the game.

  
